---
layout: post
title: Heartwork, Designing Data-Intensive Applications
categories: Islam, software, books
---

# Heartwork

- Fixing yourself is essential to getting your dua accepted
  - Do things not for recognition, or for other reasons
    - It can be, but if that’s the first thing that comes to your head, something’s wrong
- Always ask for acceptance of dua

# Shams Charania

[This article](https://nymag.com/intelligencer/article/shams-charania-nba-insider-the-athletic-new-york-times-profile.html) showed up in the NYMag Intelligencer today, giving a profile on Shams Charania
and his journey to being the top information getter in the NBA. The NBA is really a soap opera for men,
and Shams spends 18 hours a day looking at a screen. He started in high school and basically networked
his way to the top. Insanity. He barely has a life despite having all the connections in the world.

Also, he's become a sellout to the religion. I know Pakistanis aren't the most religious, but man
is getting paid by FanDuel. C'mon, man.

# Surah As-Shu'ara

Studying for Arabic today, I read this verse:

فَقَدْ كَذَّبُوا۟ فَسَيَأْتِيهِمْ أَنۢبَـٰٓؤُا۟ مَا كَانُوا۟ بِهِۦ يَسْتَهْزِءُونَ ٦

**They have certainly denied ˹the truth˺, so they will soon face the consequences of their ridicule.**

In today's age of misinformation and propoganda wars, this verse stands as a reminder to the believers
that those who lie and deny what is right will have their day in court.

# Designing Data-Intensive Applications

Not much here, but there are three components people need to worry about in a software system:

* Reliability
* Scalability
* Maintaniablity

## Reliability

Reliability comes in a few forms for a software app:

* Application runs functions as user expected
* Can tolerate the user making mistakes or using the software in unexpected ways
* Performance is good enough for user under expected load and data volume
* System prevents any unathorized users or access

There are a few kinds of faults that can disrupt reliability:

* Software faults
* Hardware faults
* User faults
