---
layout: post
title: Baseball, Long Jump, 5K
categories: sports, running
---

# Bob Gibson

I was watching Chart Party's videos on the history of Bob's, and it's fantastic. Bob Gibson was a pitcher for the St. Louis Cardinals in the 1960s. He was a really good pitcher,
one of the best in the league. And one year, he blew everyone away with an ERA of 1.12 -- something that hasn't been achieved since the dead ball era, and hasn't been achieved since.
It's an absurd season -- barely any runs were scored, and he went 261 innings without allowing a single run. Straight up domination.

# Bob Beamon

In 1968, something else remarkable happened. For context, the world record in the Long Jump was 27ft 5.75 inches. That's really far -- 9 yard or so. This was pretty unassailable at the
time -- the WR had been incrementally broken over and over, but it seemed like a slow process.

Bob Beamon, in the 1968 Olympics, without any wind assistance, jumped 29 feet 3 inches. That's a 21 inch improvement, and was unheard of. He obviously won Gold, and the record was untouched until
it was barely beaten by Mike Powell with a small tailwind. Insanity.

# 5K

Ran a 5K this morning, 1 week after the Chicago Marathon. Pretty happy with my performance. I think I could have ran faster, but I was definitely pacing myself in the second mile
to not blow up in the third. I was also following a guy for most of the first and second miles until he blew up, so that slowed me down quite a bit. Still, my splits were really consistent:

Mile 1 - 6:54
Mile 2 - 6:56
Mile 3 - 6:55
Mile 3.1 - 6:40

Pretty good overall.
